- Luca:

This work shows how to build a maximum-entropy probabilistic model for the
total activity of a population of neurons, given only some activity statistics
-- for example, empirical moments -- of a \emph{subpopulation} thereof. This
kind of model is useful because neuronal recordings are always limited to a
very small sample of a population of neurons.

The model is applied to two sets of neuronal data available in the
literature. In some cases it predicts the larger population to have
interesting features -- for example, two modes in the probability for the
total activity at low regimes -- that are not visible in the sample or in a
maximum-entropy model built for the sample alone.

For the two dataset, the maximum-entropy probability model applied only to
the subpopulation is compared with the marginal probability distribution
obtained from the maximum-entropy model applied to the full population. On
a linear probability scale no large differences are visible, but on a
logarithmic scale the two distributions show very different behaviours,
especially in the tails.


- Yasser:

Maximum entropy models have been used for building statistical models of
neural data. Since this data usually includes the activity of a relatively
small sample of neurons from a much bigger population, a natural question
to ask is how we can incorporate the fact that we are looking at such a
small fraction of neurons from the network? In this paper we address this
question in the context of the homogeneous maximum entropy model. We first
demonstrate how to build a maximum entropy model for the full population
using only the data from a sample of neurons by expressing the statistics
of the full population activity as a function of those of the sample using
standard counting arguments. We do this both when we assume that we know
the size of the full population or when we assume an uninformative prior
over the size of the full population. When then apply this to
multi-electrode recordings from the macaque motor cortex and rat Medial
Entorhinal Cortex (MEC) and see that in some cases, depending on the
moments of interest or the assumed size of the full population, this full
population maximum entropy shows features, such as extra modes in the
probability distribution of the moments that are not observable in the
maximum entropy model fit to the sampled neurons. To gain better insight
into these differences, we wondered if marginalizing the full population
maximum entropy model down to the sample size would still preserve the
observed differences in the two distributions over the sampled neurons. We
found that, in the datasets we considered, the major differences to a large
extend disappear when the model is marginalized to the sample size, but
small differences remain between the marginalized distribution and the
sample level maximum entropy model. In principle one does have to include
the knowledge that the data is subsampled from a bigger population, but
this is not usually done in practice The similarity between the maximum
entropy at the sample level and the one marginalized from the full
population is thus comforting as, a priori, the two can yield widely
different results about the activity of the sample.
